# Jack's Game (code name: main.lua)
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/w7fWbs33Uos
#### Description:

For my final project, I chose to recreate the traditional Jack's game. This game nis not only a fun take on a classic, but it also helps users test and improve their speed and reaction time. 

My project folder contains three files. There is the main file known as main.lua, which contains all of the code that makes up the game and, when running, basically allows a user to play jacks. Then tere is an image file,jack_image.PNG, which contains an image of the jacks that I incorporated into my game. (It is important to note that this file only holds the image so that I could call said image file into my main function.)

Throughout this project I made many different code design and stylistic choices. In fact, my first decision came when deciding what I wanted to do for my final project. I originally planned on creating a website because I had so much fun with the project in/during Week Eight, but after looking at the final projects from previous students I assumed that a game would be easier to create and when that route (spoiler: it was not easier). 

The first biggest difficulty I encountered when writing my code was downloading the love program and lua syntax reader. I just couldn't get it to work when I was using vscode on my chrome web browser- the only solution that was able to come up with (after a whole day of trying) was to update my macbook, downloade VS code onto my desktop as an app, and then watch YouTube tutorials on how to download love2D on both my computer and onto vscode as an extension. Another challenge I had that goes along with this was actually writing the Lua code. I knew what I wanted, and some of it was easy to figure out because it looks like other codes that I have learned, but at the same time some of the code was new and unfamiliar to me. To solve this, I would up look up a lot of lua/love libraries and then use that code format/framework while  changing the smaller individual values to reflect what I wanted for my game. Finding these libraries was a big inconvenience and definately took a while, but thankfully the code itself became easier once I had this resource. Of course, I then got stuck figuring out how to run my code/game once I created all the code. In fact, I had originally titled my code jacks.lua, but then I had trouble running it since the syntax I was using to run my program would not recognize the coding name. I had to change the name of the file to main.lua so I could use this syntax in termanial to run the code and see my game: /Applications/love.app/Contents/MacOS/love . 

Another big challenge I had was implementing my image into my code. We've had some experience with this throughout the class, and one of the projects in particular includeded Harvard code that contained a few images saved in a folder for me to blur or pixelate, so I knew it could be done but was unsure on how to impliment it. To figure it out, I actually looked up that previous project and referenced what Harvard did with those images- in addition to looking back on the lectures and googling tips/tutorials. Evntually I was able to change it from a .webp to a .png, transfer the image from my desktop into VS code, and then call for it my main code that I was writing.

A final big challenge that I had with my code was getting the ball to look like someone threw it up in the air and then caught it. I was able to get the ball to go up in the air pretty easily, but I was having trouble getting it to stop at the top of the window and then fall back down only to stop again at the bottom of the window (and having that second stop trigger the end of the game). I think this motion alone took me over two hours as I kept getting it wrong- first the ball would go up then dissapear at the top windown only to reappear at the bottom of the window going up again (on a never-ending loop that moved to left every time it "restarted" making it seem like the ball was traveling up and sideways on the screen). Then I fixed it so the ball didn't move left but just went up and dissapeared while the game was still running. Then I fixed it so the game would end once the ball reached the top of the window. Then finally got the ball to come back down but somehow lost the end screen during the process- so I had to fix that and make sure the end screen showed once the ball came back down.

Overall, this was a cool but slightly stressful and aggravating experience. While I am proud of my work and my new knowledge/skill, I would definately not be jumping for joy at the prospect of doing this project again (lol). Hope you like it!
